Accountant
Either employed within a business or working as a freelance, consultant with a portfolio of self-employed clients
or businesses. Diligence and an attention to detail means that most accountants can make good researchers,
being able to support investigations through the careful analysis of personal and business transactions, financial statements, and other records.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–70
Suggested Contacts: Business associates, legal professions, financial sector (bankers, other accountants).
Skills: Accounting, Law, Library Use, Listen, Persuade, Spot Hidden, 2

Acrobat
Acrobats may be either amateur athletes competing in staged meets—possibly even
the Olympics—or professionals employed with the entertainment sector (e.g. circuses, carnivals, theatrical performances).
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + DEX × 2
Credit Rating: 9–20
Suggested Contacts: Amateur athletic circles, sports writers, circuses, carnivals.
Skills: Climb, Dodge, Jump, Throw, Spot Hidden, Swim, 2

Stage Actor
Usually a stage or film actor. Many stage actors have a background in the classics and, considering themselves “legitimate,”
have a tendency to look down upon the commercial efforts of the film industry, although by the late twentieth
century this is diminished, with film actors able to command greater respect and higher fees.
Movie stars and the film industry have long captured the interest of people across the world. Many stars are made
overnight and most of them lead flashy, high profile lives, ever in the media spotlight.
In the 1920s, the theatrical center of the U.S. is in New York City, although there are major stages in most cities
across the country. A similar situation exists in England, with touring repertory companies traveling the counties, with
London the heart of theatrical shows. Touring companies travel by train, presenting new plays, as well as classics by
Shakespeare and others. Some companies spend considerable amounts of time touring foreign parts, such as Canada,
Hawaii, Australia, and Europe.
With the introduction of "talkies" in the latter part of the 1920s, many stars of the silent films era cannot cope with
the transition to sound. The arm-waving histrionics of silent actors give way to more subtle characterizations. John Garfield
and Francis Bushman are forgotten for new stars, such as Gary Cooper and Joan Crawford.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 9–40
Suggested Contacts: Theatre industry, newspaper arts critics, actor’s guild or union.
Skills: Art/Craft (Acting), Disguise, Fighting, History, 2x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Psychology, 1

Film Star
Usually a stage or film actor. Many stage actors have a background in the classics and, considering themselves “legitimate,”
have a tendency to look down upon the commercial efforts of the film industry, although by the late twentieth
century this is diminished, with film actors able to command greater respect and higher fees.
Movie stars and the film industry have long captured the interest of people across the world. Many stars are made
overnight and most of them lead flashy, high profile lives, ever in the media spotlight.
In the 1920s, the theatrical center of the U.S. is in New York City, although there are major stages in most cities
across the country. A similar situation exists in England, with touring repertory companies traveling the counties, with
London the heart of theatrical shows. Touring companies travel by train, presenting new plays, as well as classics by
Shakespeare and others. Some companies spend considerable amounts of time touring foreign parts, such as Canada,
Hawaii, Australia, and Europe.
With the introduction of "talkies" in the latter part of the 1920s, many stars of the silent films era cannot cope with
the transition to sound. The arm-waving histrionics of silent actors give way to more subtle characterizations. John Garfield
and Francis Bushman are forgotten for new stars, such as Gary Cooper and Joan Crawford.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 20–90
Suggested Contacts: Film industry, media critics, writers.
Skills: Art/Craft (Acting), Disguise, Drive Auto,  2x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate,Persuade), Psychology, 2

Agency Detective
Numerous well-known detective agencies exist around the world, with probably the most famous being the Pinkerton
and Burns agencies (merged into one in modern times). Large agencies employ two types of agents: security guards
and operatives.
Guards are uniformed patrolmen, hired by companies and individuals to protect property and people against burglars,
assassins and kidnappers. Use the Uniformed Police Officer’s description for these characters. Company Operatives
are plainclothes detectives, sent out on cases requiring them to solve mysteries, prevent murders, locate missing people, and so on.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (STR × 2 or DEX × 2)
Credit Rating: 20–45
Suggested Contacts: Local law enforcement, clients.
Skills: 1x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Fighting (Brawl), Firearms, Law, Library Use, Psychology, Stealth, Track

Alienist [Classic]
In the 1920s, "alienist" is the term given for those who treat mental illness (early psychiatrists). Psychoanalysis is barely
known in the U.S., and its basis in sexual life and toilet training is felt to be indecent. Psychiatry, a standard medical
education augmented by behaviorism, is more common. Intellectual wars rage between alienists, psychiatrists, and
neurologists.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 10–60
Suggested Contacts: Others in the field of mental illness, medical doctors, and occasionally detectives in law enforcement.
Skills: Law, Listen, Medicine, Other Language, Psychoanalysis, Psychology, Biology, Chemistry

Animal Trainer
May be employed by film studios, a travelling circus, a horse
stable, or possibly working freelance. Whether training guide
dogs for the blind or teaching a lion to jump through a flaming
hoop, the animal trainer usually works alone, spending
long hours in close proximity with the animals in their care.
An animal trainer can use the Psychology skill with animals
as well as people.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (APP × 2 or POW × 2)
Credit Rating: 10–40
Suggested Contacts: Zoos, circus folk, patrons, actors.
Skills: Jump, Listen, Natural World, Psychology, Zoology, Stealth, Track, 1

Antiquarian [Lovecraftian]
A person who delights in the timeless excellence of design and execution, and in the power of ancient lore. Probably the
most Lovecraft-like occupation available to an investigator. An independent income allows the antiquarian to explore
things old and obscure, perhaps sharpening their focus down particular lines of enquiry based on personal preference and
interest. Usually a person with an appreciative eye and a swift mind, who frequently finds mordant or contemptuous
humor in the foolishness of the ignorant, the pompous, and the greedy.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–70
Suggested Contacts: Booksellers, antique collectors, historical societies.
Skills: Appraise, Art/Craft (any), History, Library Use, Other Language, 1x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Spot Hidden, 1

Antique Dealer
Antique dealers usually own their own shop, retail items out of their homes, or go on extended buying trips, making a profit on reselling to urban stores.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–50
Suggested Contacts: Local historians, other antique dealers, possibly criminal fences.
Skills: Accounting, Appraise, Drive Auto, 2x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade), History, Library Use, Navigate

Archaeologist [Lovecraftian]
The study and exploration of the past. Primarily the identification, examination, and analysis of recovered materials
relating to human history. The work involves painstaking research and meticulous study, not to mention a willing attitude to getting one’s hands dirty.
In the 1920s, successful archaeologists became celebrities, seen as explorers and adventurers. While some used scientific methods, many were happy to apply brute force
when unveiling the secrets of the past— the use of dynamite was sometimes common. Such bullish behavior would be frowned upon in modern times.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 10–40
Suggested Contacts: Patrons, museums, universities.
Skills: Appraise, Archaeology, History, Other Language, Library Use, Spot Hidden, Mechanical Repair, 1x(Navigate, Science)

Architect
Architects are trained to design and plan buildings, whether a small conversion to a private house or a multi-million dollar construction project.
The architect will work closely with the project manager and oversee the construction. Architects must be aware of local planning laws, health
and safety regulation, and general public safety.
Some may work for large firms or work freelance. A lot will depend on reputation. In the 1920s, many try and go it alone, working out of their house or a small office. Few manage to sell the grandiose designs they all nurse.
Architecture may also encompass specialist areas like naval architecture and landscape architecture.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–70
Suggested Contacts: Local building and city engineering departments, construction firms.
Skills: Accounting, Technical Drawing, Law, Own Language, Library Use, Persuade, Psychology, Mathematics

Artist
May be a painter, sculptor, etc. Sometimes self-absorbed and driven with a particular vision, sometimes blessed
with a great talent that is able to inspire passion and understanding. Talented or not, the artist’s ego must be hardy and
strong to surmount initial obstacles and critical appraisal, and to keep them working if success arrives. Some artists
care not for material enrichment, while others have a keen entrepreneurial streak.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or POW × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–50
Suggested Contacts: Art galleries, critics, wealthy patrons, the advertising industry.
Skills: Art/Craft (any), History or Natural World, 1x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Other Language, Psychology, Spot Hidden, 2

Asylum Attendant
Although there are private sanitariums for those few who can afford them, the vast bulk of the mentally ill are housed
in state and county facilities. Aside from a few doctors and nurses, they employ a large number of attendants, often
chosen more for their strength and size rather than medical learning.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (STR × 2 or DEX × 2)
Credit Rating: 8–20
Suggested Contacts: Medical staff, patients, and relatives of patients. Access to medical records, as well as drugs and other medical supplies.
Skills: Dodge, Fighting (Brawl), First Aid, 2x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Listen, Psychology, Stealth.

Athlete
Probably plays in a professional baseball, football, cricket, or basketball team. This may be a major league team with a
regular salary and national attention or—particularly in the case of 1920s baseball—one of many minor league teams,
some of them owned and operated by major league owners. The latter pay barely enough to keep players fed and on the team.
Successful professional athletes will enjoy a certain amount of celebrity within the arena of their expertise—
more so in the present day where sporting heroes stand side by side with film stars on red carpets around the world.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–70
Suggested Contacts: Sports personalities, sports writers, other media stars.
Skills: Climb, Jump, Fighting (Brawl), Ride, 1x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Swim, Throw, 1

Author [Lovecraftian]
As distinct from the journalist, the author uses words to define and explore the human condition, especially the
range of human emotions. Their labors are solitary and the rewards solipsistic: only a relative handful make much
money in the present day, though in previous eras the trade once provided a regular living wage.
The work habits of authors vary widely. Typically an author might spend months or years researching in preparation
for a book, then withdrawing for periods of intense creation.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 9–30
Suggested Contacts: publishers, critics, historians, etc.
Skills: Art (Literature), History, Library Use, (Natural World, Occult), Other Language, Own Language, Psychology, 1

Bartender
Normally not the owner of the bar, the bartender is everyone’s friend. For some it’s a career or their business, for
many it's a means to an end. In the 1920s the profession is made illegal by the Prohibition
Act; however, there’s no shortage of work for a bartender, as someone has to serve the drinks in the speakeasies and secret gin joints.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 8–25
Suggested Contacts: Regular customers, possibly organized crime.
Skills: Accounting, 2x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade), Brawl, Listen, Psychology, Spot Hidden, 1

Big Game Hunter
Big game hunters are skilled trackers and hunters who usually earn their living leading safaris for wealthy clients.
Most are specialized in one part of the world, such as the Canadian woods, African plains, and other locales. Some
hunters may work for the black market, capturing live exotic species for private collectors, or trading in illegal or
morally objectionable animal products like skins, ivory, and the like—although in the 1920s such activities were more
common and were permissible under most countries’ laws. Although the "great white hunter" is the quintessential
type, others may be simply local indigenous people who escort hunters through the backwoods of the Yukon in search of moose or bear.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 20–50
Suggested Contacts: Foreign government officials, game wardens, past (usually wealthy) clients, black-market gangs and traders, zoo owners.
Skills: Firearms, Listen or Spot Hidden, Natural World, Navigate, Other Language or Survival (any), Biology or Botany, Stealth, Track.

Book Dealer
A book dealer may be the owner of a retail outlet or niche mail order service, or specialize in buying trips across the
country and even overseas. Many will have wealthy or regular clients, who provide lists of sought-after and rare works.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 20–40.
Suggested Contacts: Bibliographers, book dealers, libraries and universities, clients.
Skills: Accounting, Appraise, Drive Auto, History, Library Use, Own Language, Other Language, 1x(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, Persuade),

Bounty Hunter
Bounty hunters track down and return fugitives to justice. Most often, freelancers are employed by Bail Bondsmen to
track down bail jumpers. Bounty hunters may freely cross state lines in pursuit of their quarry and may show little
regard for civil rights and other technicalities when capturing their prey. Breaking and entering, threats, and physical
abuse are all part of the successful bounty hunter’s bag of tricks. In modern times this may stem to illegal phone taps,
computer hacking, and other covert surveillance.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–30
Suggested Contacts: Bail bondsmen, local police, criminal informants.
Skills: Drive Auto, Electronic or Electrical Repair, Fighting or Firearms, 1x(Fast Talk, Charm, Intimidate, or Persuade), Law, Psychology, Track, Stealth.

Boxer/Wrestler
Professional boxers and wrestlers are managed by individuals (promoters) possibly backed by outside interests,
and usually locked into contracts. Professional boxers and wrestlers work and train full-time.
Amateur boxing competitions abound, a training ground for those aspiring to professional status. In addition,
amateur and post-professional boxers and wrestlers can sometimes be found making a living from illegal
bare-knuckle fights, usually arranged by organized crime gangs or entrepreneurial locals.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + STR × 2
Credit Rating: 9–60
Suggested Contacts: Sports promoters, journalists, organized crime, professional trainers.
Skills: Dodge, Fighting (Brawl), Intimidate, Jump, Psychology, Spot Hidden, 1